We've now got the ability to take a user's email and password from our form we did this by two creating
two inputs for the e-mail and the password.
So now at any single point in time Suddens component whenever we want to we can refer to this state
DOT email and this state about password.
To get the email and password that the user entered.
So I think that we're now ready to use that email and password to attempt to log our user in.
And we only want to attempt to use your library to log in to what we really want to live them in.
When they tap on our button and if you recall we deal with taps on buttons by adding a callback function
to the button tags on press Propp.
So whenever a user taps a button our callback function will be called.
So that is going to be our opportunity to log the user in.
So with that in mind we will add in a callback to our button tag.
And then inside the callback we will attempt to log in the user.
That's the goal here.
So first we will define our on press Propp and then we will give it a callback function.
I'm going to define it as a helper method.
On side on this component log in form.
So say this dot on button press.
And because we are passing this thing a callback function because this is a function that would be called
at some point in the future.
I'm going to bind the context to this.
OK.
So now we will define on button press.
I'm going to scroll back up to the top and add another help or another method called on button press.
So inside of here this is it.
This is our point in time to actually log the user in.
This is where we want to try to authenticate our user to authenticate our user.
We will import the firebase framework and then we will use a method off of firebase to sign user in.
So at the top I'm going to import firebase from firebase and I'll use a method on that firebase object
to authenticate our user.
We'll call firebase Auth. dot sign in with email and password and then we need to pass misfunction our
email and password.
Remember the e-mail password is available on our state object.
So we just have to refer to this dot state DOT email and this does state a password because we want
to propertys off the same object.
We're gonna use a little bit of destructuring just to clean up our code.
So a reference Konst email and password from this dot state.
So now we've got access to the email and password variable's within this function.
So we'll pass them to this method.
So in short sign my user in with an email and password.
And here's the email and the password right here.
OK let's pull up a diagram really quick to kind of figure out where we are like crazy.
Science isn't just as easy.
I mean this seems really easy right.
Well maybe it's as easy maybe it's a little bit harder.
So they pull up a diagram really quick here.
If I can find it here we go.
All right.
So of course signing end user isn't as easy as you might think.
The code that we just put in.
Yeah.
It is correct is how we initiate signing any user but now we've got a lot of stuff to do on top of this.
So this is a diagram of all the different cases that can occur from attempting to sign a user in.
So we start off here at the top with our sign in attempt when we attempt to sign in a user with an email
and password.
There's two possible outcomes for it from that either they entered a correct email and password.
So like you know correct credentials.
And boom.
Now that was a successful authentication and we can happily say all right user you are now logged in
you have access to all the resources within the set.
On the flip side if they enter an incorrect e-mail and password we need to figure out why.
So do the user enter in an e-mail that did not exist.
If they do if they internal e-mail that did not exist maybe you want to try to create an account for
them.
Because remember we don't have a distinct separate flow for Sign-Up.
We've just got this one screen that's going to handle both the sign and the Sign-Up case.
So if a user attempts to sign in and that signing request fails we will immediately attempt to create
the user an account.
Now if they would try to create the account and it's successful fantastic we're all done.
The user again is signed in we're happy.
But if a user tries to create the account and that request fails then we want to show the user an error
something that says hey you either try to create an account using e-mail that already exists in the
system or you entered an incorrect e-mail and password combination.
So this is the flow that we have to accommodate now throughout the signing process.
So user again tops on the button.
Either they succeed or fail if they fail.
We'll try to create them account if they succeed with that fantastic.
But if they fail then we need to show them an error that says basically the entire authentication flow
failed.
You need to try a different e-mail or a different password.
So let's continue in the next section and handle implementing this case